### Tie-Breaking Amendment to the UMEC By-Laws

Sponsor: Jon Gold (goldjon)

**Passed: March 14, 2012**

WHEREAS, the UMEC By-Laws do not currently account for the occurrence of a tie in the election of an Executive Board Officer

Let it be amended in the UMEC By-Laws, that

"Section 5: Post Election Procedures

A. Upon receiving the election results, the Election Chairperson must immediately inform the entire student body in the College of Engineering of the election results in a published report no more than three days after the elections. The report shall include:

  1. Results of the election including names of the candidates and the number of votes cast for each candidate."

Be amended to read:

“Section 5: Post Election Procedures 

A. Upon receiving the election results, the Election Chairperson must immediately inform the entire student body in the College of Engineering of the election results in a published report no more than three days after the elections. The report shall include: 

  1. Results of the election including names of the candidates and the number of votes cast for each candidate. 

  2. If there occurs a first-place tie in the election of an Executive Board officer; then those candidates involved in the tie shall be presented to the General Body, and a series of votes shall be held to determine who is the winner of the election for the position in question. The first vote held shall be a vote among all of the candidates involved in the tie. The candidate with the least number of votes is then removed from consideration from the position. If only one candidate remains, they are considered the winner of the election for the Executive Board position in question. If more than one candidate remains under consideration, then another vote is held to reduce the number of candidates under consideration by one once again. This process is repeated until only one candidate remains, and that candidate is considered the winner of the election for the Executive Board position.

  3. In the event of a tie in the tie-breaking election process within the General Body, the President of the Engineering Council shall determine the appropriate method to select a winner of the election."
